docs: Establish VISION for "One Layer, All Storage" (#5309)
apache/opendal: website/docs/vision.md

---
title: Vision
sidebar_label: Vision
sidebar_position: 2
---

## Charter

**One Layer, All Storage.**

> ## Tenets

Reviewer: "Principles"?

Tenets is less to use.

Author: This word is derived from "hyper." I'm open to changing it.

Tenets are guiding principles. They guide how decisions are made for the whole project. Ideally, we do all of them all the time. In some cases, though, we may be forced to decide between slightly penalizing one goal or another. In that case, we tend to support those goals that come earlier in the list over those that come later (but every case is different).

### 0. Open Community

OpenDAL SHOULD be an **open** storage library.

OpenDAL is an ASF project governed by the OpenDAL PMC. At ASF, we believe in "Community Over Code" and adhere to [the Apache Way](https://www.apache.org/theapacheway/). We aim to develop OpenDAL to meet the needs of our community. We do not maintain private versions or include features that aren't useful to others.

For example, OpenDAL prefers to have clear and readable code, as this allows more people in the community to join the development.

### 1. Solid Foundation

OpenDAL SHOULD be a **solid** storage library.

> It should be a solid foundation of users project that users can trust OpenDAL to perform operations on real-world storage services. Wherever possible, OpenDAL should focuse to build a solid Foundation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenDAL is a solid foundation of user projects that users can trust OpenDAL to perform operations on real-world storage services. OpenDAL SHOULD always focus on building a Solid Foundation.
```

Refer clearly and use a firm tone.

### 2. Fast Access

OpenDAL SHOULD be a **fast** storage library.

Its fast access ensures that OpenDAL implements storage support with zero overhead. Users can integrate with OpenDAL without concerns about additional costs. OpenDAL should be as fast as, or faster than, the SDK for any given storage service.

For example, OpenDAL uses Capability to describe the capabilities of different services and adopts native features of those services whenever possible.

### 3. Object Storage First

OpenDAL SHOULD be an **object storage first** library.

OpenDAL does support all storage services, but it is usually optimized for modern storage services. At the time of writing, we can say OpenDAL is object storage first. When designing features, OpenDAL tends to prioritize optimization for object storage.

For example, OpenDAL's Buffer design is primarily optimized for HTTP-based services, helping to reduce extra allocation, in-memory copying, and memory usage.

### 4. Extensible Architecture

OpenDAL SHOULD be an extensible storage library.

> OpenDAL can be extended to different languages, various backends, and multiple layers. Each of them is independent and does not depend on the others. Users can combine different layers such as metrics, logging, tracing, and retry, and extend their own languages, backends, and layers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenDAL can be extended to various languages, backends, and layers. Each is independent and does not depend on the others. Users can combine different layers, such as metrics, logging, tracing, and retry, and extend their own languages, backends, and layers.
```

With Grammarly.

For example, OpenDAL's core never relies on the behavior or dependency of a single layer. Users can stack as many layers as they want on a given operator.

## Use Cases

> Who are the *users* of opendal? How would they use opendal?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Who are typical OpenDAL *users*? How would they use OpenDAL?
```

> ### Infrastructure Builders (databend, risingwave, greptimed, iceberg)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Infrastructure Builders (databend, risingwave, greptime, iceberg)
```
or 'greptimedb'? I'm not sure.

Author: Fixed.

> ### Infrastructure Builders (databend, risingwave, greptimed, iceberg)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Infrastructure Builders (Databend, RisingWave, GreptimeDB, Apache Iceberg)
```

Author: Fixed with new style.

---
title: Vision
sidebar_label: Vision
sidebar_position: 2
---

## Charter

**One Layer, All Storage.**

## Principles

Tenets are guiding principles. They guide how decisions are made for the whole project. Ideally, we do all of them all the time. In some cases, though, we may be forced to decide between slightly penalizing one goal or another. In that case, we tend to support those goals that come earlier in the list over those that come later (but every case is different).

### 0. Open Community

OpenDAL SHOULD be an **open** storage library.

OpenDAL is an ASF project governed by the OpenDAL PMC. At ASF, we believe in "Community Over Code" and adhere to [the Apache Way](https://www.apache.org/theapacheway/). We aim to develop OpenDAL to meet the needs of our community. We do not maintain private versions or include features that aren't useful to others.

For example, OpenDAL prefers to have clear and readable code, as this allows more people in the community to join the development.

> ### 1. Solid Foundation

Reviewer 3: -1 for `Solid Foundation`, as mentioned in https://github.com/apache/opendal/discussions/5301#discussioncomment-11220635

IMO such a tenet is too big, hollow and subjective to provide guidance meaning and be constructive: no one will ever want to uncarefully build unsolid, untrustworthy software. It is self-evident to me that don't need to be told.

I propose the following alternatives:
- `Well-defined Behavior`
- Or Simply remove this one

Author: > no one will ever want to uncarefully build unsolid, untrustworthy software. It is self-evident to me that don't need to be told.

This is true. The closest comparison I can think of is the set of safety rules for flying a plane. No one wants the plane to crash, be damaged, or get lost, but that does happen. This principle exists to guide our development so that we don't make changes that lead us off track.

> IMO such a tenet is too big, hollow and subjective to provide guidance meaning and be constructive

Yes, I agree that "solid foundation" is somewhat a big word. I'm open to better alternatives.

> `Well-defined Behavior`

This phrase doesn't convey what we want in these areas.

> Or Simply remove this one

Unfortunately, I believe we need to emphasize this area. Removing this one might leave our principles incomplete. I still suggest to use `solid foundation` if we don't have better one.
